(heard long before the others, and much oftener.,1)
(which Socrates spoke in 'the agora and among the tables of the,1)
(of an attempt to make Anytus or Meletus personally odious in the eyes of,1)
(Language: English,1)
(should be very sorry if Meletus could bring so grave a charge against,1)
(immediately after my departure punishment far heavier than you have,1)
(are uncorrupted; 'and they are my witnesses. For they know that I am,1)
(Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the,1)
(Euthyph.),1)
(Phaedr.; Euthyph.; Republic.),1)
(if I am to estimate the penalty fairly, I should say that maintenance in,1)
(the evil do them evil. Now, is that a truth which your superior wisdom,1)
(Literary Archive Foundation,1)
(But I shall be asked, Why do people delight in continually conversing,1)
(disparagingly of any one who is a student of natural philosophy. I,1)
(he charge?' 'Evenus the Parian,' he replied; 'he is the man, and his,1)
(improver is.--Observe, Meletus, that you are silent, and have nothing to,1)
(He would like to say a few words, while there is time, to those who,1)
(that he hated me, and his enmity was shared by several who were present,1)
(where I could do no good to you or to myself; but where I could do the,1)
(terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or,1)
(of his fellow-citizens is not so remarkable as the ironical spirit in,1)
(is a good or an evil; and he is certain that desertion of his duty is,1)
(my disciples, or to any other. Not that I have any regular disciples.,1)
(wise, then in vindication of the oracle I show him that he is not wise;,1)
(allow yourselves to be deceived by the force of my eloquence. To say,1)
(But that, my good sir, is not my meaning. I want to know who the person,1)
(shall be able to deceive him and the rest of them. For he certainly does,1)
(was no man wiser. What could be the meaning of this--that he who knew,1)
(man give if he might converse with Orpheus and Musaeus and Hesiod and,1)
(would be the condition of youth if they had one corrupter only, and,1)
(increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be,1)
(Translated by Benjamin Jowett,1)
(Or why should he propose any counter-penalty when he does not know,1)
(his master in the last great scene? Did he intend to represent him (1),1)
(there is a change and migration of the soul from this world to another.,1)
(performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works,1)
(information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official,1)
(Socrates, but what is the origin of these accusations which are brought,1)
(did they speak; and yet they have hardly uttered a word of truth. But,1)
(allege that I corrupt them intentionally or unintentionally?,1)
(them in harsher terms, because they are younger and more inconsiderate.,1)
(come to an end. And many will witness to my words.,1)
(for theirs; because he is their heaven-sent friend (and they will never,1)
(corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual,1)
(not think of death or of anything but of disgrace. And this, O men of,1)
(not believe that there are gods and demigods and heroes.,1)
(them, as I have troubled you, if they seem to care about riches, or,1)
(follows: When I began to talk with him, I could not help thinking that,1)
(access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently,1)
(thesis is maintained, that 'to suffer is better than to do evil;' and,1)
(even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See,1)
(with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution,1)
(kill him, or drive him into exile, or deprive him of civil rights; and,1)
(proof this charge against me. Well, what do the slanderers say? They,1)
(and there is an opportunity still for them to appear. But their fathers,1)
(the Prytaneum is the just return.,1)
(and the judge decide justly.,1)
(or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm,1)
(you. It is an intimation that what has happened to me is a good, and,1)
(This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:,1)
(nothing, and imagined that they knew all things. Thus he had passed,1)
(he cannot have his tongue bound even 'in the throat of death.' With,1)
(he, at any rate, will not seek to stop him); and there is Paralus the,1)
(has come of a certain sort of wisdom which I possess. If you ask me what,1)
(Some one may wonder why I go about in private giving advice and busying,1)
(mitigation of the penalty; 3rd. The last words of prophetic rebuke and,1)
(part of the votes, as the law requires, in which case he would have,1)
(the craftsmen and politicians; Lycon, on behalf of the rhetoricians: and,1)
(principle of his life. Socrates is nowhere represented to us as a,1)
(methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other,1)
(about Anaxagoras; the Athenian people are not so ignorant as to,1)
(and requires to be stirred into life. I am that gadfly which God has,1)
(be the God of Delphi--he will tell you about my wisdom, if I have any,,1)
(conception of him, appearing in the greatest and most public scene of,1)
(1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing,1)
(cause should not be decided in one day, then I believe that I should,1)
(boldly asked the oracle to tell him whether--as I was saying, I must beg,1)
(that which may be thought, and is generally believed to be, the last and,1)
(Meletus, and not accused in the court.,1)
(them good, and others who have to do with them rather injure them?,1)
(than we are, they will be immortal, if what is said is true.,1)
(been condemned, behaving in the strangest manner: they seemed to fancy,1)
(commonplace reply, that if he had been guilty of corrupting the youth,1)
(yield' I must have died at once. I will tell you a tale of the courts,,1)
(disciple. The Apology of Plato may be compared generally with those,1)
(I will begin at the beginning, and ask what is the accusation which has,1)
(should like to tell you of a wonderful circumstance. Hitherto the divine,1)
(is so eager to bring men to trial from a pretended zeal and interest,1)
(Then every Athenian improves and elevates them; all with the exception,1)
(from his control.,1)
(customary sign would surely have opposed me had I been going to evil and,1)
(that the wisdom of men is worth little or nothing; he is not speaking,1)
(there can be no doubt that if a man will throw away his arms, and fall,1)
(never taught or professed to teach him anything. And if any one says,1)
(hitherto I have restrained: and as they are younger they will be more,1)
(States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a,1)
(And now, as one who is about to die, he will prophesy to them. They have,1)
(may fairly reply: My friend, I am a man, and like other men, a creature,1)
(I am very unfortunate if you are right. But suppose I ask you a,1)
(both from public and private affairs. Young men of the richer sort had,1)
(Ariston, whose brother Plato is present; and Aeantodorus, who is the,1)
(that I am serious; and if I say again that daily to discourse about,1)
(License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this,1)
(indifferent to him. But such a defence as would be acceptable to his,1)
(was laid upon me,--the word of God, I thought, ought to be considered,1)
(themselves by calling him a villainous corrupter of youth, and by,1)
(greater far.,1)
(he has risked his life for the sake of justice--once at the trial of,1)
(one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation,1)
(eloquent. But in how different a way from theirs! Well, as I was saying,,1)
(poetry they believed themselves to be the wisest of men in other things,1)
(Some one will say: Yes, Socrates, but cannot you hold your tongue, and,1)
(before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or,1)
(friends, and I should like to show you the meaning of this event which,1)
(democracy. But when the oligarchy of the Thirty was in power, they sent,1)
(work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.,1)
(are human beings, whom are you thinking of placing over them? Is there,1)
(understand that I shall never alter my ways, not even if I have to die,1)
(wisdom; there is amusement in it. Now this duty of cross-examining other,1)
(By Plato,1)
(Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project,1)
(both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael,1)
(friend, I say; the question is one which may be easily answered. Do not,1)
(their hatred but a proof that I am speaking the truth?--Hence has arisen,1)
(call me; not the corrupted youth only--there might have been a motive,1)
(keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project,1)
(accuracy. He is not therefore to be supplemented from the Memorabilia,1)
(others; there are plenty of persons, as they quickly discover, who think,1)
(divine or spiritual agencies (new or old, no matter for that); at any,1)
(unfrequently exhibitions of them at the theatre (Probably in allusion to,1)
(himself otherwise,'--if, as we must add, his defence was that with which,1)
(would be fiercer and more inconsiderate in their words when emancipated,1)
(The hour of departure has arrived, and we go our ways--I to die, and you,1)
(and right which he deemed to be the foundation of religion. (Compare,1)
(good, or at least not many;--the trainer of horses, that is to say, does,1)
(been cast anew in the mould of Plato.,1)
(active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project,1)
(that Socrates received the first impulse to his favourite calling of,1)
(because I was afraid of death, fancying that I was wise when I was not,1)
(prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with,1)
(Wherefore, O judges, be of good cheer about death, and know of a,1)
(admonished and not punished. In these words the Socratic doctrine of the,1)
(Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide,1)
(would rather die in his own fashion than live in theirs. For the penalty,1)
(was actually spoken by him. It breathes the spirit of Socrates, but has,1)
(neglected all my own concerns or patiently seen the neglect of them,1)
(unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily,1)
(oracle that I was better off as I was.,1)
(do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the,1)
(the truth of this I will endeavour to prove to you.,1)
(penalty of death,--they too go their ways condemned by the truth,1)
(with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations,1)
(and Aeacus and Triptolemus, and other sons of God who were righteous in,1)
(here.,1)
(even if a thousand deaths await him.,1)
(things under the earth and in heaven, and he makes the worse appear the,1)
(improve them?,1)
(harm, although they did not mean to do me any good; and for this I may,1)
(What, all of them, or some only and not others?,1)
(individually like a father or elder brother, exhorting you to regard,1)
(Perhaps you think that I am braving you in what I am saying now, as in,1)
(or while I was speaking, at anything which I was going to say; and yet I,1)
(men?,1)
(he practise or teach? they do not know, and cannot tell; but in order,1)
(my conclusion was exactly the same. Whereupon I made another enemy of,1)
(whether death, which men in their fear apprehend to be the greatest,1)
(discreditable to myself, and to you, and to the whole state. One who,1)
(suppose you mean, as I infer from your indictment, that I teach them not,1)
(set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to,1)
(repeating the commonplaces about atheism and materialism and sophistry,,1)
(something wrong in asking a favour of a judge, and thus procuring an,1)
(mission was just this: I found that the men most in repute were all but,1)
(world has decided that Socrates is in some way superior to other,1)
(in the habit of opposing me even about trifles, if I was going to make,1)
(copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon,1)
(to describe, because I have it not myself; and he who says that I have,,1)
(since I had been prosecuted I must be put to death; (or if not that I,1)
(made by them in the days when you were more impressible than you are,1)
(Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed,1)
(sufficiently shown that you never had a thought about the young: your,1)
(is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further,1)
(editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.,1)
(in Athens, of whom I have heard; and I came to hear of him in this,1)
(their pretence of knowledge has been detected--which is the truth; and,1)
(here I was not mistaken, for they did know many things of which I,1)
(Plato has provided him. But leaving this question, which does not admit,1)
(PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK,1)
(have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition,1)
(the tables of the money-changers, or anywhere else, I would ask you not,1)
(which you will affix), I must indeed be blinded by the love of life, if,1)
(God rather than you, and while I have life and strength I shall never,1)
(persons or your properties, but first and chiefly to care about the,1)
(Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.,1)
(spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of,1)
(does not prevent Plato from introducing them together in the Symposium,1)
(the world has not heard, let me tell you that he is lying.,1)
(And now, Athenians, I am not going to argue for my own sake, as you may,1)
(Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement,1)
(to injure a better than himself. I do not deny that Anytus may, perhaps,,1)
(waited a little while, your desire would have been fulfilled in the,1)
(if I had led a public life, supposing that like a good man I had always,1)
(with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org,2)
(days and nights he had passed in the course of his life better and more,1)
(Above all, I shall then be able to continue my search into true and,1)
(detraction of the world, which has been the death of many good men, and,1)
(charge is five minae.' Happy is Evenus, I said to myself, if he really,1)
(other places. (Compare for Anaxagoras, Phaedo, Laws; for the Sophists,,1)
(proposed has the appearance of truth. More suspicious is the statement,1)
(die himself--'Fate,' she said, in these or the like words, 'waits for,1)
(but an elaborate composition, quite as much so in fact as one of the,1)
(     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is,1)
(1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth,1)
(though we might desire that to such a serious charge Socrates had given,1)
(them--thinking that they would teach me something. Will you believe me?,1)
(of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project,1)
(enquirers do not believe in the existence of the gods. And they are,1)
(oracles, visions, and in every way in which the will of divine power was,1)
(Come hither, Meletus, and let me ask a question of you. You think a,1)
(- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies,1)
(better, whether God or man, is evil and dishonourable, and I will never,1)
(And first, I have to reply to the older charges and to my first,1)
(own defence, and argue when there is no one who answers. I will ask you,1)
(incidentally the antagonism between Socrates and the Sophists is allowed,1)
(when they are really nothing,--then reprove them, as I have reproved,1)
(hearing by conciliatory words. He does not attack the Sophists; for they,1)
(ought never to have been prosecuted at all); and that if I escape now,,1)
(the good do their neighbours good, and the bad do them evil?,1)
(1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted,1)
(and that Meletus is a liar.,1)
(liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal,1)
(appear to me to contradict himself in the indictment as much as if he,1)
(think that by killing men you can prevent some one from censuring your,1)
(the Athenian public.,1)
(wiser than I was, and the Pythian prophetess answered, that there was no,1)
(do, weeping and wailing and lamenting, and saying and doing many things,1)
(Palamedes, and Ajax the son of Telamon, and any other ancient hero who,1)
(fashion of his country:--Am I making an unfair request of you? Never,1)
(will convince them of their evil ways, and will come forth to reprove,1)
(there would be no difficulty in finding some one to put over them; we,1)
(INTRODUCTION.,1)
(are these sophistries to be regarded as belonging to the age in which,1)
(as employing sophistries; (2) as designedly irritating the judges? Or,1)
(should be the order which he observes in all his actions. What shall be,1)
(contrasts with the aggravated, almost threatening, tone of the,1)
(work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1,1)
(If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project,1)
(what I was able to pay, and not have been much the worse. But I have,1)
(forgotten--I will make way for him. And let him say, if he has any,1)
(always the same in all my actions, public as well as private, and never,1)
(same objection. I should have to lie in prison, for money I have none,,1)
('Yes, it is.' 'Has he only new gods, or none at all?' 'None at all.',1)
(have been intended by you to make trial of me. You have put this into,1)
(conclusion. He characteristically remarks that he will not speak as a,1)
(you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a,1)
(His irony, his superiority, his audacity, 'regarding not the person of,1)
(of the situation. Plato was not, like Xenophon, a chronicler of facts;,1)
(the citizens worse when he has to live with them. This surely cannot be,1)
(There is Gorgias of Leontium, and Prodicus of Ceos, and Hippias of Elis,,1)
(the last of them.,1)
(For example, when he says that it is absurd to suppose that one man is,1)
(provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.,1)
(me to fulfil the philosopher's mission of searching into myself and,1)
(not ashamed of heaping up the greatest amount of money and honour and,1)
(open court, which contrasts with his manner of speaking about them in,1)
(Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the,1)
((trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all,1)
(End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Apology, by Plato,1)
(I should be teaching you to believe that there are no gods, and in,1)
(Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.,1)
(Salaminian from Salamis, as they wanted to put him to death. This was a,1)
(compounding a riddle in this part of the indictment: 'There are no gods,,1)
(This inquisition has led to my having many enemies of the worst and most,1)
(sufficient witness to the truth of what I say--my poverty.,1)
(providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance,1)
(harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,,1)
(can happen to the good man either in life or death. His absolute,1)
(corrupt the youth; but I say, O men of Athens, that Meletus is a doer of,1)
(himself. Whether this opinion of me be deserved or not, at any rate the,1)
(write poetry, but by a sort of genius and inspiration; they are like,1)
(believed, nor disbelieved, in the existence of the popular gods; he,1)
(me will be good for you, and therefore I beg that you will not cry out.,1)
(and come to them whom they not only pay, but are thankful if they may be,1)
(believes in the sons of gods, we must remember that this is a refutation,1)
(of their lives. But his death 'will be the seed' of many disciples who,1)
(to persuade every man among you that he must look to himself, and seek,1)
(and move slowly, and the slower runner has overtaken me, and my accusers,1)
(and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property,1)
(And is there anyone who would rather be injured than benefited by those,1)
(if I am destroyed;--not Meletus, nor yet Anytus, but the envy and,1)
(and he trusts that they will not be angry with him for not following,1)
(No indeed, men of Athens, neither I nor any other man. But I have been,1)
(not of the original indictment, which is consistent enough--'Socrates,1)
(     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the,1)
(was a politician whom I selected for examination--and the result was as,1)
(were open to the same charges as himself; they were equally ridiculed by,1)
(whom the state receives, but introduces other new divinities.' These,1)
(business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact,1)
(does not receive the gods whom the city receives, and has other new,1)
(good pleasure; and we ought not to encourage you, nor should you allow,1)
(Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm,1)
(and Amphipolis and Delium, remained where they placed me, like any other,1)
(Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the,1)
(observed that these sophisms all occur in his cross-examination of,1)
(not Meletus nor yet Anytus--they cannot, for a bad man is not permitted,1)
(no rhetoric but truth; he will not falsify his character by making a,1)
(us examine the particular counts. He says that I am a doer of evil, and,1)
(Certainly.,1)
(privately, and warned and admonished me; for if I had been,1)
(word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or,1)
(The first part commences with an apology for his colloquial style;,1)
(the corrupter, of the injurer of their kindred, as Meletus and Anytus,1)
(is a state of nothingness and utter unconsciousness, or, as men say,,1)
(appearing before you, O men of Athens, in the character of a juvenile,1)
(Is not that true, Meletus, of horses, or of any other animals? Most,1)
(tried for impiety on the indictment of Meletus. For if, O men of Athens,,1)
(There is not much in the other Dialogues which can be compared with the,1)
(against you; there must have been something strange which you have been,1)
(The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating,1)
(penalty be a fine, and imprisonment until the fine is paid? There is the,1)
(approaching end happened by mere chance. But I see clearly that the,1)
(but to avoid unrighteousness; for that runs faster than death. I am old,1)
(riddle, thinking to try me? He said to himself:--I shall see whether,1)
(battle array and have persuasive tongues, they have filled your ears,1)
(for me and four others into the rotunda, and bade us bring Leon the,1)
(man whom he calls Socrates, going about and saying that he walks in,1)
(them hither in order to petition you for an acquittal. And why not? Not,1)
(reputation of wisdom, and observed him--his name I need not mention; he,1)
(speech. Then he proceeds to divide his accusers into two classes; first,,1)
(and deny that of horses and asses. Such nonsense, Meletus, could only,1)
(Now I have great difficulty in making you understand my answer to this.,1)
(points of the defence might have been improved and strengthened, at all,1)
(desultory style is an imitation of the 'accustomed manner' in,1)
(Not much time will be gained, O Athenians, in return for the evil name,1)
(assistance they need, is critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's,1)
(permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.,1)
(have no knowledge of the kind.,1)
(evil? Shall I say imprisonment? And why should I live in prison, and be,1)
(for that--but their uncorrupted elder relatives. Why should they too,1)
(injure yourselves more than you will injure me. Nothing will injure me,,1)
(nothing, and knew that he knew nothing, should be declared by the oracle,1)
(*****,3)
(the art of rhetoric is described as only useful for the purpose of,1)
(about the thing which has come to pass, while the magistrates are busy,,1)
(of his life are summed up, and the features of his character are brought,1)
(compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any,1)
(had no means of knowing about them. According to Plato (compare Phaedo;,1)
(in the marketplace to their private instructions; his tarry-at-home life,1)
(the wise Socrates will discover my facetious contradiction, or whether I,1)
(speak rather because I am convinced that I never intentionally wronged,1)
(existence of Apollo or Zeus, or the other gods whom the State approves,,1)
(consider whether in doing anything he is doing right or wrong--acting,1)
(The Apology or Platonic defence of Socrates is divided into three,1)
(that I have no wisdom, small or great. What then can he mean when he,1)
(friend, and tell us who their improver is.,1)
(Aeschines--he is present; and also there is Antiphon of Cephisus, who is,1)
(the wisdom which I find wanting in others: but the truth is, O men of,1)
(defence of Socrates was as much greater than the Platonic defence as the,1)
(me. What do I take to be the explanation of this silence? I will tell,1)
(approach us with offers to donate.,1)
(money for giving instruction would, in my opinion, be an honour to him.,1)
(then you may go into a foreign city, and no one will interfere with you?,1)
(one drachma at the most); and they might pay their money, and laugh at,1)
(1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable,1)
(the whole truth: not, however, delivered after their manner in a set,1)
(as Anytus bids, and either acquit me or not; but whichever you do,,1)
(I swear by Zeus that you believe absolutely in none at all.,1)
(reason to hope that death is a good; for one of two things--either death,1)
(Salamis and fetched Leon, but I went quietly home. For which I might,1)
(better cause, and teaching all this to others.' The second, 'Socrates is,1)
(you; and when the orators threatened to impeach and arrest me, and you,1)
(your sons will all be utterly ruined by listening to my words--if you,1)
(now--in childhood, or it may have been in youth--and the cause when,1)
(specimen of the sort of commands which they were always giving with,1)
(believe yourself. I cannot help thinking, men of Athens, that Meletus,1)
(man,' necessarily flow out of the loftiness of his situation. He is not,1)
(But, setting aside the question of public opinion, there seems to be,1)
(cross-examining the world from the Oracle of Delphi; for he must already,1)
(as I said at the beginning, I cannot expect to get rid of such a mass of,1)
(charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United,1)
(regarded as fated,--and I think that they are well.,1)
(1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm,1)
(himself. The enthusiastic Chaerephon (probably in anticipation of the,1)
(injury upon him: but there I do not agree. For the evil of doing as,1)
(*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK APOLOGY ***,1)
(Certainly they are.,2)
(man wiser. Chaerephon is dead himself; but his brother, who is in court,,1)
(in following a profession which leads him to death? Why?--because he,1)
(under the earth and above the heaven; and making the worse appear the,1)
(Apology. The same recollection of his master may have been present,1)
(Title: Apology,1)
(to the god, and search and make enquiry into the wisdom of any one,,1)
(particular state visit http://pglaf.org,1)
((and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without,1)
(defence.,1)
(made a pastime of the same pursuit, 'which was not unamusing.' And hence,1)
(was ignorant, and in this they certainly were wiser than I was. But I,1)
(tears, and how he produced his children in court, which was a moving,1)
(entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.,1)
(overtaken his accusers as death will soon overtake him.,1)
(     Chief Executive and Director,1)
(concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared,1)
(*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK APOLOGY ***,1)
(forth in few words or in many upon such matters...You hear their answer.,1)
(with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,,1)
(including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists,1)
(him, but only says that he has, I reproach him with undervaluing the,1)
(that to die is gain; for eternity is then only a single night. But if,1)
(Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all,1)
(Still I have a favour to ask of them. When my sons are grown up, I would,1)
(The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.,1)
(- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from,1)
(1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right,1)
(But, having regard to public opinion, I feel that such conduct would be,1)
(Socrates if he pretends to father these extraordinary views. And so,,1)
(1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation",1)
(1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived,1)
(me. But the simple truth is, O Athenians, that I have nothing to do with,1)
(of them I see in the court. There is Crito, who is of the same age and,1)
(     License.  You must require such a user to return or,1)
(my hand. I should say to him, 'Here is a man who is wiser than I am; but,1)
(he deserves far more than the citizen who has won the prize at Olympia,1)
(works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg,1)
(with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the,1)
(he replies, 'and be avenged of my enemy, rather than abide here by the,1)
(any one says that this is not my teaching, he is speaking an untruth.,1)
(have been present at the defence (Apol.), as he is also said to have,1)
(truth of my words, and give heed to that: let the speaker speak truly,1)
(He then goes on to explain the reason why he is in such an evil name.,1)
(used by him must have been remembered, and some of the facts recorded,1)
(There is another thing:--young men of the richer classes, who have not,1)
(even a less serious occasion, prayed and entreated the judges with many,1)
(Now do you really imagine that I could have survived all these years,,1)
(the recollection of his very words may have rung in the ears of his,1)
(a more serious answer.,1)
(succeed be for my good and yours, or likely to avail me in my cause!,1)
(will probably be the death of many more; there is no danger of my being,1)
(true judges who are said to give judgment there, Minos and Rhadamanthus,1)
(me, who am his gift to you. For if you kill me you will not easily find,1)
(one whom I meet and saying to him after my manner: You, my friend,--a,1)
(Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at,1)
(but a bad opinion of the judges, if you fancy them illiterate to such,1)
(cannot endure my discourses and words, and have found them so grievous,1)
(law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be,1)
(Author: Plato,1)
(Athens, I must beg you not to interrupt me, even if I seem to say,1)
(request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other,1)
(court, in somewhat plainer terms, what you mean! for I do not as yet,1)
(which seems to distinguish him from all other reformers of mankind, and,1)
(your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with,1)
(time had arrived when it was better for me to die and be released from,1)
(you next after Hector;' he, receiving this warning, utterly despised,1)
(of Plato in other passages (Laws). But Anaxagoras had been dead thirty,1)
(and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic,1)
(persuading you all, old and young alike, not to take thought for your,1)
(greatest improvement of the soul. I tell you that virtue is not given,1)
(the indictment because you had nothing real of which to accuse me. But,1)
(the impudence of my accusers dares to say that I have ever exacted,1)
(and perfect them in their own proper virtue and excellence; but as they,1)
(1.F.,1)
(of human beings?...I wish, men of Athens, that he would answer, and not,1)
(speculate in this way any more, and that if you are caught doing so,1)
(according to the notions of mythology current in his age. Yet he,1)
(oration duly ornamented with words and phrases. No, by heaven! but I,1)
(oracle irrefutable. After the politicians, I went to the poets; tragic,,1)
(through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the,1)
(believe in them. And to you and to God I commit my cause, to be,1)
(They improve them.,1)
(you--some of them having first convinced themselves--all this class of,1)
(public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm,1)
(a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check,1)
(Socrates argues, all evil is involuntary, then all criminals ought to be,1)
(this singular and almost accidental character of his mission agrees with,1)
(I dare say, Athenians, that some one among you will reply, 'Yes,,1)
(danger and death, and instead of fearing them, feared rather to live,1)
(Socrates.,1)
(to leave their own citizens by whom they might be taught for nothing,,1)
(disciples have turned out well or ill, he cannot justly be charged with,1)
(the citizens?' (Compare Meno.) 'All men everywhere.' But how absurd, how,1)
(How you, O Athenians, have been affected by my accusers, I cannot tell;,1)
(shall use the words and arguments which occur to me at the moment; for,1)
(not afraid of death is another question, of which I will not now speak.,1)
(beaked ships, a laughing-stock and a burden of the earth.' Had Achilles,1)
(shall be my prosecutors, and I will sum up their words in an affidavit:,1)
(The second question, whether Plato meant to represent Socrates as,1)
(if you do this, both I and my sons will have received justice at your,1)
(to depart; and therefore he forgives his judges because they have done,1)
(ever intimated to any one. This is true, O Athenians, or, if not true,,1)
(flute-players? No, my friend; I will answer to you and to the court, as,1)
(Gutenberg-tm License.,1)
(persuade you. Also, I have never been accustomed to think that I deserve,1)
(defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can,1)
(come if they liked, and they might stay away if they liked: and they,1)
(aspiration of the first martyr of philosophy, that he would leave behind,1)
(abstains from saying that he believed in the gods whom the State,1)
(fear; that would indeed be strange, and I might justly be arraigned in,1)
(but has other new divinities of his own. Such is the charge; and now let,1)
(LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE,1)
(Dialogues. And we may perhaps even indulge in the fancy that the actual,1)
(after death. He and his are not neglected by the gods; nor has my own,1)
(judges and might procure an acquittal, it is not in his nature to make.,1)
(only ones in which Plato makes mention of himself. The circumstance that,1)
(There are many reasons why I am not grieved, O men of Athens, at the,1)
(trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone,1)
(Meletus, who is easily foiled and mastered in the hands of the great,1)
(no one who has a particle of understanding will ever be convinced by you,1)
(That had arisen out of a peculiar mission which he had taken upon,1)
(wisdom is in truth worth nothing. And so I go about the world, obedient,1)
(And I say that these things ought not to be done by those of us who have,1)
(rather than man; and will continue to preach to all men of all ages the,1)
(     Dr. Gregory B. Newby,1)
(and of what sort it is. You must have known Chaerephon; he was early a,1)
(Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent,1)
(In what relation the Apology of Plato stands to the real defence of,1)
(all the rest of the world were their improvers. But you, Meletus, have,1)
(been some sense in my doing so; but now, as you will perceive, not even,1)
(INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH,1)
(against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who,1)
(He is an old man already, and the Athenians will gain nothing but,1)
(Translator: Benjamin Jowett,1)
(all sorts of high matters, and this defect in them overshadowed their,1)
(Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.,1)
(called and shouted, I made up my mind that I would run the risk, having,1)
(death is the journey to another place, and there, as men say, all the,1)
(has no care at all, great or small, about the matter. But still I should,1)
(to teach them anything, and is therefore not justly chargeable with,1)
(dangers there are other ways of escaping death, if a man is willing to,1)
(Yes, the senators improve them.,1)
(done to such an one? Doubtless some good thing, O men of Athens, if he,1)
(attached to the state, and all day long and in all places am always,1)
(And the senators?,1)
(again, as in the former instance, the defence of Socrates is untrue,1)
(him, and intentionally, too--so you say, although neither I nor any,1)
(thinking that they are something when they are really nothing. And,1)
(the prejudice against me; and this is the reason of it, as you will find,1)
(state which I ever held, O men of Athens, was that of senator: the tribe,1)
(protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project,1)
(a man wiser than myself, then I might go to the god with a refutation in,1)
(What return shall be made to the man who has never had the wit to be,1)
(freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of,1)
(pleasantly than this one, I think that any man, I will not say a private,1)
(of the case you lie. If my offence is unintentional, the law has,1)
(endure me. No indeed, men of Athens, that is not very likely. And what,1)
(said that Socrates is guilty of not believing in the gods, and yet of,1)
(own death has been permitted by the gods, because it was better for him,1)
(or sought pay of any one; of that they have no witness. And I have a,1)
(that,1)
(still wiser by himself; and thereupon I tried to explain to him that he,1)
(who gets up a doleful scene and makes the city ridiculous, than him who,1)
(an evil-doer and corrupter of the youth, who does not receive the gods,1)
(located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from,1)
(distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than,1)
(Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation,1)
(and I am more afraid of them than of Anytus and his associates, who are,1)
(whether death, which Anytus proposes, is a good or an evil? And he is,1)
(have convinced you. But I cannot in a moment refute great slanders; and,,1)
(enmity which I provoked, and I lamented and feared this: but necessity,1)
(he shows that he is not one of them. Of natural philosophy he knows,1)
(yet, I know that my plainness of speech makes them hate me, and what is,1)
(they have scarcely spoken the truth at all; but from me you shall hear,1)
(understand whether you affirm that I teach other men to acknowledge,1)
(matter: they like to hear the cross-examination of the pretenders to,1)
(number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at,1)
(To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free,1)
(some gods, and therefore that I do believe in gods, and am not an entire,1)
(court! But then you swear in the indictment that I teach and believe in,1)
(fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT,1)
(paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project,1)
(associated with me. There is Nicostratus the son of Theosdotides, and,1)
(conviction was not of words--certainly not. But I had not the boldness,1)
(such an evil name. When I heard the answer, I said to myself, What can,1)
(I either said or did touching the matter in hand has the oracle opposed,1)
('What, not even the sun and moon?' 'No; why, he says that the sun is a,1)
(great deal about the improvement of youth?,1)
(copied or distributed:,1)
(faculty of which the internal oracle is the source has constantly been,1)
(opposite is the truth. For all these are ready to witness on behalf of,1)
(poets;--because they were good workmen they thought that they also knew,1)
(the Comic poets, and almost equally hateful to Anytus and Meletus. Yet,1)
(are not the same gods which the city recognizes--the charge is that they,1)
(     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax,1)
(sleep was undisturbed even by dreams, and were to compare with this the,1)
(gained anything, or if my exhortations had been paid, there would have,1)
(freethinker or sceptic. There is no reason to doubt his sincerity when,1)
(the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement,1)
(award--let them abide by theirs. I suppose that these things may be,1)
(unspeakable gain. For if a person were to select the night in which his,1)
(the worse appear the better cause; for they do not like to confess that,1)
(of unrighteousness is swifter than death; that penalty has already,1)
(permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.,1)
(a favour:--If I defend myself in my accustomed manner, and you hear me,1)
(in public and advise the state. I will tell you why. You have heard me,1)
(them: you think that I was convicted because I had no words of the sort,1)
(him no harm, although they never meant to do him any good.,1)
(not corrupt them, or I corrupt them unintentionally; and on either view,1)
(certainty, that no evil can happen to a good man, either in life or,1)
(are gods, and in a sense higher than that in which any of my accusers,1)
(either possible or honourable; the easiest and the noblest way is not,1)
(written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you,1)
(on his knees before his pursuers, he may escape death; and in other,1)
(done no good either to you or to myself. And do not be offended at my,1)
(goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will,1)
(What an extraordinary statement! Why do you think so, Meletus? Do you,1)
(between us that you should hear me to the end: I have something more to,1)
(as a fair challenge, and I will endeavour to explain to you the reason,1)
(as they are numerous and ambitious and energetic, and are drawn up in,1)
(violent terms was, as far as we know, never fulfilled. No inference,1)
(Again, when Socrates argues that he must believe in the gods because he,1)
(distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work,1)
(another gadfly. When I say that I am given to you by God, the proof of,1)
(Athens, is a true saying.,1)
(a successor to me, who, if I may use such a ludicrous figure of speech,,1)
(He will not say or do anything that might pervert the course of justice;,1)
(I assure you, judges, that he does not: for he says that the sun is,1)
(whether citizen or stranger, who appears to be wise; and if he is not,1)
(would have acquitted him. He wishes them to know that the divine sign,1)
(life. But he does not at all repent of the manner of his defence; he,1)
(answer which he received) had gone to Delphi and asked the oracle if,1)
(terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked,1)
(teach. But he commends Evenus for teaching virtue at such a 'moderate',1)
(That is what I stoutly affirm.,1)
(and nature, he shows a less kindly feeling, which is also the feeling,1)
(I must remind the audience of my request that they would not make a,1)
(is a place not of instruction, but of punishment.,1)
(who live with him? Answer, my good friend, the law requires you to,1)
(showed, not in word only but in deed, that, if I may be allowed to use,1)
(I should have been very proud and conceited; but the truth is that I,1)
(Friend Meletus, you think that you are accusing Anaxagoras: and you have,1)
(delivered from the professors of justice in this world, and finds the,1)
(good? Is not the exact opposite the truth? One man is able to do them,1)
(International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make,1)
(and brothers all appear in court (including 'this' Plato), to witness,1)
(gives you the appearance of happiness, and I give you the reality. And,1)
(contrast may occur to his mind, and he may be set against me, and vote,1)
(politician. And rightly, as I think. For I am certain, O men of Athens,,1)
(He is desirous that they should let him live--not for his own sake, but,1)
(new meaning and a sort of tragic pathos in the face of death. The facts,1)
(Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or,1)
(in the comedy of Aristophanes (Aristoph., Clouds.), who has introduced a,1)
(     Project Gutenberg-tm works.,1)
(holds his peace.,1)
(not angry with my condemners, or with my accusers; they have done me no,1)
(him many followers, accompanied by the not unnatural feeling that they,1)
(Release Date: February, 1999,1)
(to the mind of Plato when depicting the sufferings of the Just in the,1)
(politicians.,1)
(Socrates produced on the mind of Plato, we cannot certainly,1)
(for--wealth, and family interests, and military offices, and speaking in,1)
(But you have just admitted that the good do their neighbours good, and,1)
(Trojan expedition; or Odysseus or Sisyphus, or numberless others, men,1)
(License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.,1)
(has happened to me. O my judges--for you I may truly call judges--I,1)
(Leaving Meletus, who has had enough words spent upon him, he returns to,1)
(braving or irritating his judges, must also be answered in the negative.,1)
(Yes, I do.,1)
(which he goes about doing good only in vindication of the credit of the,1)
(disciples is not satisfactory, can hardly be denied. Fresh in the memory,1)
(me say thirty minae, and they will be the sureties. Let thirty minae be,1)
(the slave of the magistrates of the year--of the Eleven? Or shall the,1)
(easily strike me dead as Anytus advises, and then you would sleep on,1)
(and women too! What infinite delight would there be in conversing with,1)
(his mastery over mankind is greatest, and his habitual irony acquires a,1)
(all, who altogether despised danger in comparison with disgrace; and,1)
(LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR,1)
(     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to,1)
(who fell at Troy were not good for much, and the son of Thetis above,1)
((or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project,1)
(Athens, that God only is wise; and by his answer he intends to show,1)
(***** This file should be named 1656.txt or 1656.zip *****,1)
(ought rather to show that you are far more disposed to condemn the man,1)
(dangerous kind, and has given occasion also to many calumnies. And I,1)
(who go the round of the cities, and are able to persuade the young men,1)
(to the citizens, inasmuch as they are my brethren. For know that this is,1)
(I should reply: Men of Athens, I honour and love you; but I shall obey,1)
(by money, but that from virtue comes money and every other good of,1)
(himself declared this to be unnecessary, on the ground that all his life,1)
(any public matter of interest or to any concern of my own, but I am in,1)
(do anything common or mean when in danger: nor do I now repent of the,1)
(short time, a slander which has lasted a long time. May I succeed, if to,1)
(words attributed to him having been actually uttered. They express the,1)
(I mean the latter--that you are a complete atheist.,1)
(Mem.); and the previous formula, which is a summary of public opinion,,1)
(of Anaxagoras, as well as to other dramatic poets.) (price of admission,1)
(evil, may not be the greatest good. Is not this ignorance of a,1)
(that they know something, but really know little or nothing; and then,1)
(     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium,1)
(the assembly, and magistracies, and plots, and parties. Reflecting that,1)
(that those of us who think that death is an evil are in error. For the,1)
(oracle, and in the vain hope of finding a wiser man than himself. Yet,1)
(about the heaven above, and searched into the earth beneath, and made,1)
(evil lives, you are mistaken; that is not a way of escape which is,1)
(calumny all in a moment. And this, O men of Athens, is the truth and the,1)
(practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is,1)
(space, must have a private station and not a public one.,1)
(     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days,1)
(this respect differing from the Phaedo), and at last falls back on,1)
(the place which he has chosen or that in which he has been placed by a,1)
(I turn to the second class. They are headed by Meletus, that good man,1)
(disgraceful sort, the ignorance which is the conceit that a man knows,1)
(All of them.,1)
(or impudence or inclination to address you as you would have liked me to,1)
(using the words which I have been in the habit of using in the agora, at,1)
(take money; this accusation has no more truth in it than the other.,1)
(cross-examine them, and therefore I must simply fight with shadows in my,1)
(me, and tell your neighbours whether any of you have ever known me hold,1)
(1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,,1)
(THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE,1)
(works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain,1)
(As he expected, and probably intended, he is convicted. And now the tone,1)
(state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal,1)
(Strange, indeed, would be my conduct, O men of Athens, if I who, when I,1)
(man or a good one, neither result can be justly imputed to me; for I,1)
(from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is,1)
(demigods or spirits are gods, and you say first that I do not believe in,1)
(that if I had engaged in politics, I should have perished long ago, and,1)
(collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic,1)
(lives. Here, then, the sophistry is rather in form than in substance,,1)
(whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the,1)
(and ignorance as not to know that if a man with whom I have to live is,1)
(others, some of whom Meletus should have produced as witnesses in,1)
(     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of,1)
(who argues that the Platonic defence is an exact or nearly exact,1)
(to live. Which is better God only knows.,1)
(Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no,1)
(accuser, of whom he makes very light. Also there is a touch of irony,1)
(atheist--this you do not lay to my charge,--but only you say that they,1)
(thought himself wise, but was not really wise; and the consequence was,1)
(he is doing--the evil of unjustly taking away the life of another--is,1)
(certain that imprisonment is an evil, exile is an evil. Loss of money,1)
(leaving the event with God, in obedience to the law I will now make my,1)
(- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any,1)
(injustice from any fear of death, and that 'as I should have refused to,1)
(rhetorician, that is to say, he will not make a regular defence such as,1)
(him caricatured in the Clouds of Aristophanes. Secondly, there are,1)
(in anger because he is displeased at me on this account. Now if there,1)
(warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.,1)
(or an evil, why should I propose a penalty which would certainly be an,1)
(persons of whom I was speaking have a superhuman wisdom which I may fail,1)
(of the speech, instead of being more conciliatory, becomes more,1)
(If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the,1)
(divinities'--but of the interpretation put upon the words by Meletus,,1)
(a journey to another world in which the souls of the dead are gathered,1)
(the strong arm of that oppressive power did not frighten me into doing,1)
(at Potidaea, and Amphipolis, and Delium, where the generals placed him.,1)
(life is not worth living, you are still less likely to believe me. Yet,1)
(     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the,1)
(To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate,1)
(divinities or spiritual agencies in their stead. These are the lessons,1)
(all, as I may say, and I was sure that they knew many fine things; and,1)
(further evidence of the literal accuracy of some parts. But in the,1)
(TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE,1)
(and can be interrogated. 'If he is the corrupter, who is the improver of,1)
(words may have been spoken by Socrates himself, we cannot exclude the,1)
(leave nothing undone or unsaid. Not so; the deficiency which led to my,1)
(all his life long. He is serious when he is speaking of his own mission,,1)
(me and refused to teach me. And now you bring me up in this court, which,1)
(Friends, who would have acquitted me, I would like also to talk with you,1)
(By the goddess Here, that is good news! There are plenty of improvers,,1)
(wisdom; and therefore I asked myself on behalf of the oracle, whether,1)
(their falsehoods, telling of one Socrates, a wise man, who speculated,1)
(SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any,1)
(accusers, and then I will go on to the later ones. For of old I have had,1)
(their crimes. Yet the defence, when taken out of this ironical form,,1)
(And although some of you may think that I am joking, I declare that I,1)
(me;--I mean when they said that you should be upon your guard and not,1)
(interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by,1)
(why I am called wise and have such an evil fame. Please to attend then.,1)
(Apology was composed during the process, resting on no evidence, do not,1)
(can be drawn from this circumstance as to the probability of the,1)
(that he will judge according to the laws, and not according to his own,1)
(propriety of my answering the latter first, for these accusations you,1)
(people, whose whole life has been spent in doing them good, should at,1)
(to spare me. I dare say that you may feel out of temper (like a person,1)
(hindered him; if he had been a public man, and had fought for the right,,1)
(he had to live; or, when he proves his belief in the gods because,1)
(are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project,1)
('improvers of youth,' answering the Sophist according to his sophistry,1)
(the generals; and again in resistance to the tyrannical commands of the,1)
(Certainly not.,1)
(their relations would surely have witnessed against him, with which he,1)
(giving instruction--that is another mistaken notion:--he has nothing to,1)
(where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To,1)
(involuntariness of evil is clearly intended to be conveyed. Here,1)
(individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are,1)
(when compared with the others. Now if death be of such a nature, I say,1)
(old--in which, too, there are just judges; and as all are immortal,,1)
(out for their sakes.,1)
(outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.,1)
(Why do I mention this? Because I am going to explain to you why I have,1)
(array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations,1)
(to death for asking questions: assuredly not. For besides being happier,1)
(view of the historian. So in the Apology there is an ideal rather than a,1)
(teacher of atheism?,1)
(809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email,1)
(page at http://pglaf.org,1)
(same result--he found that they knew nothing, or hardly anything more,1)
(death which Meletus proposes? When I do not know whether death is a good,1)
(oracular sign, of which he seemed to have an internal witness. But the,1)
(with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project,1)
(has recognized thus early in life, and am I, at my age, in such darkness,1)
(to some accounts, did compose for him. But he first procures himself a,1)
(ignorant of them, and never says a word about them. Nor is he paid for,1)
(Aristophanes who caricatured, and to Euripides who borrowed the notions,1)
(of what I was saying, that you have no interest in the matter? Speak up,,1)
(answer me and listen to my words; and whether he turns out to be a bad,1)
(propose any penalty. Why should I? because I am afraid of the penalty of,1)
(disgrace by depriving him of a few years of life. Perhaps he could have,1)
(better. I will tell you the tale of my wanderings and of the 'Herculean',1)
(to their wandering from city to city. The tone which he assumes towards,1)
(that they may not appear to be at a loss, they repeat the ready-made,1)
(possibility, that like so much else, e.g. the wisdom of Critias, the,1)
(of their relatives, fathers, brothers, or other kinsmen, should say what,1)
(acting a part upon a great occasion, but he is what he has been all his,1)
(dishonourable and impious and wrong, especially now, when I am being,1)
(figures of speech. The gentleness of the first part of the speech,1)
(nothing; not that he despises such pursuits, but the fact is that he is,1)
(But that will not be as you suppose: far otherwise. For I say that there,1)
(yourselves to be encouraged, in this habit of perjury--there can be,1)
(must remain at his post where the god has placed him, as he remained,1)
(man, and two others who are still young; and yet I will not bring any of,1)
(you said that I was the wisest.' Accordingly I went to one who had the,1)
(better advised, I should have left off doing what I only did,1)
(for we may as well talk with one another while there is time. You are my,1)
(enmities which I have incurred, and this is what will be my destruction,1)
(unintentionally--no doubt I should; but you would have nothing to say to,1)
(maintained the right and had made justice, as I ought, the first thing?,1)
(of the Comic poets, and in the opinion of the multitude, he had been,1)
(support me with their testimony? Why, indeed, except for the sake of,1)
(orator--let no one expect it of me. And I must beg of you to grant me,1)
(citizen of the great and mighty and wise city of Athens,--are you,1)
(the part of a good man or of a bad. Whereas, upon your view, the heroes,1)
(as he conjectures, is that the death to which he is going is a good and,1)
(in dishonour, and not to avenge his friend. 'Let me die forthwith,',1)
(because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from,1)
(That the manner in which he defends himself about the lives of his,1)
(the professed accusers, who are but the mouth-piece of the others. The,1)
(are keen and quick, and the faster runner, who is unrighteousness, has,1)
(     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm,1)
(physical speculations. Very many of those here present are witnesses to,1)
(Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic,1)
(found to result in a perfect work of art, which is the portrait of,1)
(And so he proposes death as the penalty. And what shall I propose on my,1)
(instantly detected; now you will find out that you are more ignorant,1)
(is,' he said. 'Who is he?' said I; 'and of what country? and what does,1)
(to be surprised, and not to interrupt me on this account. For I am more,1)
(the result, for he never promised to teach them anything. They might,1)
(offended at me, when he calls to mind how he himself on a similar, or,1)
(who has a quarrel with me on behalf of the poets; Anytus, on behalf of,1)
(defending should simply convict myself of the charge of not believing in,1)
(those who are examined by them instead of being angry with themselves,1)
(kinds; one recent, the other ancient: and I hope that you will see the,1)
(gadfly who stirs the generous steed into motion. Why then has he never,1)
('Few persons will be found to wish that Socrates should have defended,1)
(to acknowledge the gods which the state acknowledges, but some other new,1)
(of myself; and I alone am their corrupter? Is that what you affirm?,1)
(small pleasure, as I think, in comparing my own sufferings with theirs.,1)
(many, and their charges against me are of ancient date, and they were,1)
(ignorance, or like them in both; and I made answer to myself and to the,1)
(break his oath, when he is himself being tried for impiety.,1)
(something of this kind: It says that Socrates is a doer of evil, who,1)
(escaped, if he had chosen to throw down his arms and entreat for his,1)
(But, though not a public man, he has passed his days in instructing,1)
(by the nymphs or by any other mothers, of whom they are said to be the,1)
(he may imagine, and others may imagine, that he is inflicting a great,1)
(than speak in your manner and live. For neither in war nor yet at law,1)
(is reckless and impudent, and that he has written this indictment in a,1)
(notion that demons or lesser divinities are the sons of gods is not,1)
(Athenians themselves give honour and command, are no better than women.,1)
(who desires leisure that he may instruct you? There can be no reward so,1)
(the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by,1)
(the force of truth; for is such is their meaning, I admit that I am,1)
(fear or avoid a possible good rather than a certain evil. And therefore,1)
(represented as scrupulously obedient to the laws. The idealization,1)
(speaks falsely, and is taking away my character. And here, O men of,1)
(this? If indeed when the pilgrim arrives in the world below, he is,1)
(justice; and he cannot be guilty of the impiety of asking the judge to,1)
(I was really too honest a man to be a politician and live, I did not go,1)
(what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in,1)
(electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without,1)
(many accusers, who have accused me falsely to you during many years;,1)
(the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a,1)
(whom you would excuse if he spoke in his native tongue, and after the,1)
(subject to the trademark license, especially commercial,1)
(Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project,1)
(beautiful and good, I am better off than he is,--for he knows nothing,,1)
(their example. But he feels that such conduct brings discredit on the,1)
(Then, by the gods, Meletus, of whom we are speaking, tell me and the,1)
(I asked him: 'Callias,' I said, 'if your two sons were foals or calves,,1)
(in the state than my service to the God. For I do nothing but go about,1)
(answer--does any one like to be injured?,1)
(chance case of a Comic poet. All who from envy and malice have persuaded,1)
(and thinks that he knows; I neither know nor think that I know. In this,1)
(first. And I said to myself, Go I must to all who appear to know, and,1)
(believing in them--but this is not like a person who is in earnest.,1)
(which would have procured my acquittal--I mean, if I had thought fit to,1)
(lawless and unrighteous deeds which are done in a state, will save his,1)
(and cannot pay. And if I say exile (and this may possibly be the penalty,1)
(corrupts the youth; and who does not believe in the gods of the state,,1)
(Intentionally, I say.,1)
(greater, and overvaluing the less. And I shall repeat the same words to,1)
(computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by,1)
(overtaken them. And now I depart hence condemned by you to suffer the,1)
(determine; nor can we say how he would or must have written under the,1)
(1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied,1)
(creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project,1)
(and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.,1)
(utter poverty by reason of my devotion to the god.,1)
(say, at which you may be inclined to cry out; but I believe that to hear,1)
(remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project,1)
(the person with whom I am arguing, says: Yes, but I do care; then I do,1)
(given rise to the slander of me, and in fact has encouraged Meletus to,1)
(1.E.9.,1)
(he was not really wise, although he was thought wise by many, and,1)
(or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project,1)
(promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,,1)
(and odious that you will have no more of them, others are likely to,1)
(Wherefore, O men of Athens, I say to you, do as Anytus bids or not,1)
('Socrates is an evil-doer and a curious person, searching into things,1)
(right in taking this course.): at my time of life I ought not to be,1)
(Yet some of the topics may have been actually used by Socrates; and,1)
(I am almost ashamed to confess the truth, but I must say that there is,1)
(and proved myself to be anything but a great speaker, did indeed appear,1)
(something extravagant. For the word which I will speak is not mine. I,1)
(but I know that they almost made me forget who I was--so persuasively,1)
(informs us in another passage, on the testimony of Hermogenes, the,1)
(think, but for yours, that you may not sin against the God by condemning,1)
(the course of his speech; and let him still produce them, if he has,1)
(I should like you, O men of Athens, to join me in examining what I,1)
(has suffered death through an unjust judgment; and there will be no,1)
(he does not appear in any of his writings to have aimed at literal,1)
(carelessness is seen in your not caring about the very things which you,1)
(as he would certainly have fought against the many, he would not have,1)
(assuredly it is; whether you and Anytus say yes or no. Happy indeed,1)
(charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you,1)
(that I have escaped Meletus. I may say more; for without the assistance,1)
(have been guilty of the impiety of altering them, and also because many,1)
(about matters in which he really never had the smallest interest. And,1)
(all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.,1)
(approved. He does not defend himself, as Xenophon has defended him,,1)
(other human being is ever likely to be convinced by you. But either I do,1)
(the imagination of Plato. The arguments of those who maintain that the,1)
(prophecy which I utter before my departure to the judges who have,1)
(to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the,1)
(in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER,1)
(gods. 'Is that the way in which he is supposed to corrupt the youth?',1)
(stone, and the moon earth.' That, replies Socrates, is the old confusion,1)
(posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),,1)
(the youth, which he will not cease to follow in obedience to the god,,1)
(misleader of youth!--and then if somebody asks them, Why, what evil does,1)
(How lucky I am to have extracted that answer, by the assistance of the,1)
(rate as five minae. Something of the 'accustomed irony,' which may,1)
(identified with the teachers of physical science and with the Sophists.,1)
(improvement of the soul, which you never regard or heed at all? And if,1)
(mankind; and this occupation had quite absorbed him and taken him away,1)
(And when you accuse me of corrupting and deteriorating the youth, do you,1)
(ought not to calculate the chance of living or dying; he ought only to,1)
(charges which are used against all philosophers about teaching things,1)
(I am confident in the justice of my cause (Or, I am certain that I am,1)
(the same case; and I further observed that upon the strength of their,1)
(The judges, Socrates, who are present in court.,1)
(     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.",1)
(there is the nameless accuser--public opinion. All the world from their,1)
(is doubtless sound: that his teaching had nothing to do with their evil,1)
(But perhaps the members of the assembly corrupt them?--or do they too,1)
(for the remainder of your lives, unless God in his care of you sent you,1)
(have often been stopped in the middle of a speech, but now in nothing,1)
(Well, perhaps I could afford a mina, and therefore I propose that,1)
(work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any,1)
(out who is wise, and who pretends to be wise, and is not. What would,1)
(what I said before about the tears and prayers. But this is not so. I,1)
(corrupted by me, I am very likely to be harmed by him; and yet I corrupt,1)
(DAMAGE.,1)
(any one, although I cannot convince you--the time has been too short; if,1)
(than they are. Accordingly, I took them some of the most elaborate,1)
(but Socrates believes in the existence of the sons of gods, which is,1)
(,204)
(bring against me.,1)
(law and justice with me, rather than take part in your injustice because,1)
(and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees,1)
(the truth of this, and to them I appeal. Speak then, you who have heard,1)
(there was any man wiser than Socrates; and the answer was, that there,1)
(which comes to me, and is the divinity which Meletus ridicules in the,1)
(of the many falsehoods told by them, there was one which quite amazed,1)
(should hire a trainer of horses, or a farmer probably, who would improve,1)
("Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or,1)
(Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive,1)
(Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of,1)
(him, and of many others besides him.,1)
(not very interesting perhaps, but nevertheless true. The only office of,1)
(men are most difficult to deal with; for I cannot have them up here, and,1)
(re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included,2)
(of the duty of self-examination, and of those principles of truth,1)
(suppose that I know: but I do know that injustice and disobedience to a,1)
(such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and,1)
(thought about the matter, for you have sons; is there any one?' 'There,1)
(I would like to be as I was, neither having their knowledge nor their,1)
(respecting the trial and death of Socrates agree generally with Plato;,1)
(penalty: Plato, Crito, Critobulus, and Apollodorus, my friends here, bid,1)
(every one whom I meet, young and old, citizen and alien, but especially,1)
(of a precise solution, we may go on to ask what was the impression which,1)
(or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work,1)
(whether he be young or old, he is not excluded. Nor do I converse only,1)
(from any self-assertion or want of respect for you. Whether I am or am,1)
(what he does not know? And in this respect only I believe myself to,1)
(writers. The Apology of Plato is not the report of what Socrates said,,1)
(Prytanes who was opposed to the illegality, and I gave my vote against,1)
(diviners or soothsayers who also say many fine things, but do not,1)
(to me when I was a child; it always forbids but never commands me to,1)
(the divine sign which, according to our notions, is equally accidental,1)
(speeches of Thucydides in which he has embodied his conception of the,1)
(but they have lost the flavour of Socratic irony in the narrative of,1)
(things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,1)
(with you? I have told you already, Athenians, the whole truth about this,1)
(idle during his whole life; but has been careless of what the many care,1)
(who am probably in danger of my life, will do none of these things. The,1)
(At last I went to the artisans. I was conscious that I knew nothing at,1)
(there can be no fear of any one suffering death for his opinions.,1)
(truthfulness seems to hinder him from asserting positively more than,1)
(exhortation.,1)
(Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure,1)
(the youth are said to be taught them by Socrates, when there are not,1)
(which you have been accustomed to hear from others, and which, as I,1)
(the god mean? and what is the interpretation of his riddle? for I know,1)
(man, public as well as private. This is my teaching, and if this is the,1)
(this, when they were certain to be detected as soon as I opened my lips,1)
(wise. For the fear of death is indeed the pretence of wisdom, and not,1)
(observed that even the good artisans fell into the same error as the,1)
(stone, and the moon earth.,1)
(accusing me before them. Speak, then, and tell the judges who their,1)
(taken part in public affairs? Because the familiar divine voice has,1)
(are different gods. Or, do you mean that I am an atheist simply, and a,1)
(*** START: FULL LICENSE ***,1)
(may also be regarded as sophistical. He says that 'if he has corrupted,1)
(answers, in accordance with the ideas of the time, that a downright,1)
(And now, Meletus, I will ask you another question--by Zeus I will:,1)
(reputation, and caring so little about wisdom and truth and the greatest,1)
(research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do,1)
(     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and,1)
(truth and justice, and because they know that I am speaking the truth,,1)
(long he had been preparing against that hour. For the speech breathes,1)
(if you had been like other men: tell us, then, what is the cause of,1)
(people in all walks of life.,1)
(fastening upon you, arousing and persuading and reproaching you. You,1)
(resignation to the divine will, and the certainty that no evil,1)
(leaving my house in the morning, or when I was on my way to the court,,1)
(I am so irrational as to expect that when you, who are my own citizens,,1)
(which you will get from the detractors of the city, who will say that,1)
(of them who are now grown up and have become sensible that I gave them,1)
(the view of implicating as many as possible in their crimes; and then I,1)
(them, for we should be sorry to judge hastily of you.' Now I regard this,1)
(mind the manner, which may or may not be good; but think only of the,1)
(I can give you convincing evidence of what I say, not words only, but,1)
(speaking the truth, and that Meletus is lying.',1)
(Yes, they do.,1)
(that he meant to give the stamp of authenticity to the one and not to,1)
(a life should I lead, at my age, wandering from city to city, ever,1)
(none, and therefore I must ask you to proportion the fine to my means.,1)
(better cause; and he teaches the aforesaid doctrines to others.' Such is,1)
(Antiochis, which is my tribe, had the presidency at the trial of the,1)
(including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary,1)
("Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version,1)
(am a sort of gadfly, given to the state by God; and the state is a great,1)
(he is, as he has always been, the enemy of rhetoric, and knows of,1)
(sons--what human being will ever believe that there are no gods if they,1)
(forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from,1)
(of the Athenians, and detestable as they deserved to be to the newly,1)
(not leave him or let him go at once; but I proceed to interrogate and,1)
(he said, He, O men, is the wisest, who, like Socrates, knows that his,1)
(Well, Athenians, this and the like of this is all the defence which I,1)
(Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered,1)
(other men, I were to desert my post through fear of death, or any other,1)
(greatest good privately to every one of you, thither I went, and sought,1)
(he speculates on the possibility of seeing and knowing the heroes of the,1)
(to appear. He is poor and they are rich; his profession that he teaches,1)
(telling you the truth: for the truth is, that no man who goes to war,1)
(Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions,1)
(bad advice in the days of their youth should come forward as accusers,,1)
(be superior to them for the same reason that I was superior to the,1)
(     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the,1)
(defence is unnecessary, but I know only too well how many are the,1)
(Let us reflect in another way, and we shall see that there is great,1)
(then to assume with me, as I was saying, that my opponents are of two,1)
(and take their revenge; or if they do not like to come themselves, some,1)
(he desirous of hastening his own end, for life and death are simply,1)
(me; and if I drive them away, their elders will drive me out at their,1)
(than seventy years of age, and appearing now for the first time in a,1)
(has reached my years, and who has a name for wisdom, ought not to demean,1)
(will be renamed.,1)
(therefore I may assume that your silence gives consent. Now what are,1)
(Truly characteristic of Socrates is another point in his answer, which,1)
(almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or,2)
(in horsemanship, and not in horses? or in flute-playing, and not in,1)
(the other side, I should have been acquitted. And I may say, I think,,1)
(spirits or demigods? Are they not either gods or the sons of gods?,1)
(man, but even the great king will not find many such days or nights,,1)
(that the same men can believe in divine and superhuman things, and yet,1)
(to be regarded as ironical or sceptical. He is arguing 'ad hominem',1)
(although he, too, is not made of 'rock or oak.' Some of the judges,1)
(indictment. This sign, which is a kind of voice, first began to come,1)
(which are the stock-accusations against all philosophers when there is,1)
(latter particular, then, I seem to have slightly the advantage of him.,1)
(not pretend to know either much or little--not that I mean to speak,1)
(parts: 1st. The defence properly so called; 2nd. The shorter address in,1)
(of Arginusae; and you proposed to try them in a body, contrary to law,,1)
(you killed Socrates, a wise man; for they will call me wise, even,1)
(years, and was beyond the reach of persecution.,1)
(The above remarks must be understood as applying with any degree of,1)
(dialectician. Perhaps he regarded these answers as good enough for his,1)
(Meno, Republic, Tim., Theaet., Soph., etc.) But at the same time,1)
(no piety in that. Do not then require me to do what I consider,1)
(testimony of the sort which he can produce. Nay, Athenians, the very,1)
(manner, the seeming want of arrangement, the ironical simplicity, are,1)
(Symp.), as well as Xenophon (Memor.), he was punctual in the performance,1)
(attribute to the influence of Socrates notions which have found,1)
(Apology, in which Socrates, who has defied the judges, is nevertheless,1)
(say. But is not this rather disgraceful, and a very considerable proof,1)
(speak at sundry times and in divers places of an oracle or sign,1)
(although I do not suppose that either of us knows anything really,1)
(indicted him if they meant to let him go. For he will certainly obey God,1)
(their own life, that pilgrimage will be worth making. What would not a,1)
(changing my place of exile, and always being driven out! For I am quite,1)
(commander, there he ought to remain in the hour of danger; he should,1)
(in which they were not wise. So I departed, conceiving myself to,1)
(originates in an accident. The dedication of himself to the improvement,1)
(opportunities to fix the problem.,1)
(life long, 'a king of men.' He would rather not appear insolent, if,1)
(would be soon refuted. If I am or have been corrupting the youth, those,1)
(brother of Apollodorus, whom I also see. I might mention a great many,1)
(unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.,1)
(I have said enough in my defence against the first class of my accusers;,1)
(the other?--especially when we consider that these two passages are the,1)
(please to answer the next question: Can a man believe in spiritual and,1)
(differ from men in general, and may perhaps claim to be wiser than,1)
(do anything which I am going to do. This is what deters me from being a,1)
(that would be against his nature. After long consideration, I thought of,1)
(sure that wherever I go, there, as here, the young men will flock to,1)
(have I yielded any base compliance to those who are slanderously termed,1)
(those who have condemned me to death. And I have another thing to say to,1)
(the original accusation. The question may be asked, Why will he persist,1)
(dangerous, too, in their own way. But far more dangerous are the others,,1)
(501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the,1)
(lived, and could therefore have done no good. Twice in public matters,1)
(considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up,1)
(would have said of them that the most eminent men of Athens, to whom the,1)
(false knowledge; as in this world, so also in the next; and I shall find,1)
(Plato in the Apology intended to give of the character and conduct of,1)
(heard went by default, for there was none to answer. And hardest of all,,1)
(ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.,1)
(certainty to the Platonic Socrates only. For, although these or similar,1)
(own life which will prove to you that I should never have yielded to,1)
(access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided,1)
(works.  See paragraph 1.E below.,1)
(more conclusive. (See English Translation.) What effect the death of,1)
(style of my defence; I would rather die having spoken after my manner,,1)
(The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit,1)
(As little foundation is there for the report that I am a teacher, and,1)
(wisdom detected. If they have been corrupted, their elder relatives (if,1)
(only care was lest I should do an unrighteous or unholy thing. For,1)
(subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.,1)
(an evil. Anytus is quite right in saying that they should never have,1)
(possessed was more than counter-balanced by their conceit of knowledge.,1)
(than himself; and that the little advantage which in some cases they,1)
(Men of Athens, do not interrupt, but hear me; there was an understanding,1)
(APOLOGY,2)
(ought I or any man to use every way of escaping death. Often in battle,1)
(require a serious refutation. Nor are the reasonings of Schleiermacher,,1)
(Anaxagoras the Clazomenian, which are full of them. And so, forsooth,,1)
(with their loud and inveterate calumnies. And this is the reason why my,1)
(air, and talking a deal of nonsense concerning matters of which I do,1)
(phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project,1)
(to be the wisest of men? Reflecting upon the answer, he determined to,1)
(keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.,1)
(men has been imposed upon me by God; and has been signified to me by,1)
(for I am about to die, and in the hour of death men are gifted with,1)
(course of nature. For I am far advanced in years, as you may perceive,,1)
(To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation,1)
(are angry with me: This confounded Socrates, they say; this villainous,1)
(This is about all that he has to say. He will not entreat the judges to,1)
(with those who pay; but any one, whether he be rich or poor, may ask and,1)
(- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free,1)
(to me most shameless--unless by the force of eloquence they mean,1)
(rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose,1)
(have taken the pains to discover their corrupter, and are citing and,1)
(his accusers he will only fence and play, as he had fenced with other,1)
(know, was very impetuous in all his doings, and he went to Delphi and,1)
(men. And if those among you who are said to be superior in wisdom,1)
(throughout a spirit of defiance, (ut non supplex aut reus sed magister,1)
((He is condemned to death.),1)
(out as if by accident in the course of the defence. The conversational,1)
(inflicted on me will surely await you. Me you have killed because you,1)
(the command of God; and I believe that no greater good has ever happened,1)
(Memorabilia that Socrates might have been acquitted 'if in any moderate,1)
(is, who, in the first place, knows the laws.,1)
(then. And what do you say of the audience,--do they improve them?,1)
(God, and therefore that I cannot hold my tongue, you will not believe,1)
(have been famous before Chaerephon went to consult the Oracle (Riddell),,1)
(anything, more than about virtue; or if they pretend to be something,1)
(assumes the same legal style.,1)
(by the dog I swear!--for I must tell you the truth--the result of my,1)
(The task is not an easy one; I quite understand the nature of it. And so,1)
(     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments,1)
(     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he,1)
(and my occupation quite absorbs me, and I have no time to give either to,1)
(and noble steed who is tardy in his motions owing to his very size,,1)
(like to know, Meletus, in what I am affirmed to corrupt the young. I,1)
(is uncertain;--he also conceives of death as a long sleep (in,1)
(hardly a person present who would not have talked better about their,1)
(Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.,1)
(But this was an error. For both of them he professes a respect in the,1)
(For additional contact information:,1)
(fitting as maintenance in the Prytaneum, O men of Athens, a reward which,1)
(find out the meaning of the oracle. And I swear to you, Athenians,,1)
(And from what they say of this part of the charge you will be able to,1)
(conceive to be his inconsistency; and do you, Meletus, answer. And,1)
(whole truth; I have concealed nothing, I have dissembled nothing. And,1)
(is obviously not a sufficient answer that Socrates had never professed,1)
(as you all thought afterwards; but at the time I was the only one of the,1)
(and the story is of a kind which is very likely to have been invented.,1)
(says that I am the wisest of men? And yet he is a god, and cannot lie;,1)
(demigods. For if the demigods are the illegitimate sons of gods, whether,1)
(Lysias or one of the orators might have composed for him, or, according,1)
(It will be very clear to you, Athenians, as I was saying, that Meletus,1)
(I have said enough in answer to the charge of Meletus: any elaborate,1)
(son of Demodocus, who had a brother Theages; and Adeimantus the son of,1)
(disturbance if I speak in my accustomed manner:,1)
(I do not know and cannot tell the names of my accusers; unless in the,1)
(of Xenophon are not worth noticing, because the writing in which they,1)
(much to do, come about me of their own accord; they like to hear the,1)
(of the least religious duties; and he must have believed in his own,1)
(pretenders examined, and they often imitate me, and proceed to examine,1)
(restored democracy, were the names of Alcibiades, Critias, Charmides. It,1)
(wrong; and when we came out of the rotunda the other four went to,1)
(time furnish a commentary on the situation of affairs from the point of,1)
(be such a person among you,--mind, I do not say that there is,--to him I,1)
(that they were going to suffer something dreadful if they died, and that,1)
(are contained is manifestly spurious. The statements of the Memorabilia,1)
(and true lover of his country, as he calls himself. Against these, too,,1)
(Yes, that I say emphatically.,1)
(was ordered by the generals whom you chose to command me at Potidaea,1)
(Thirty.,1)
(This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with,2)
(not themselves) might surely come into court and witness against him,,1)
(the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United,1)
(might be an evil, but then he has none to give; perhaps he can make up,1)
(have to offer. Yet a word more. Perhaps there may be some one who is,1)
(request; and if I let them come, their fathers and friends will drive me,1)
(and not far from death. I am speaking now not to all of you, but only to,1)
(must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional,1)
(myself and others, is the greatest good of man, and that the unexamined,1)
(main it must be regarded as the ideal of Socrates, according to Plato's,1)
(gently blame them.,1)
(will be more accusers of you than there are now; accusers whom,1)
(The laws.,1)
(1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this,1)
(evil, in that he pretends to be in earnest when he is only in jest, and,1)
(for to that extent I am inclined to believe that I am wise; whereas the,1)
(1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm,1)
(Homer? Nay, if this be true, let me die again and again. I myself, too,,1)
(the sleep of him who is undisturbed even by dreams, death will be an,1)
(States.,1)
(He knew nothing, and knew that he knew nothing: they knew little or,1)
(He has a last request to make to them--that they will trouble his sons,1)
(as I am convinced that I never wronged another, I will assuredly not,1)
(     gbnewby@pglaf.org,1)
(mean that I do not believe in the godhead of the sun or moon, like other,1)
(Although, if a man were really able to instruct mankind, to receive,1)
(a reputation; and if they are done, you ought not to permit them; you,1)
(he lived and to his personal character, and this apparent haughtiness as,1)
(Meletus, you really think that I do not believe in any god?,1)
(vote of condemnation. I expected it, and am only surprised that the,1)
(who began when you were children, and took possession of your minds with,1)
(up in the clouds and under the earth, and having no gods, and making,1)
(judge of the truth of the rest.,1)
(and before I go to the place at which I must die. Stay then a little,,1)
(the youth, he must have corrupted them involuntarily.' But if, as,1)
(property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a,1)
(the nature of the accusation: it is just what you have yourselves seen,1)
(he could avoid it (ouch os authadizomenos touto lego). Neither is,1)
(refute it by finding 'a wiser;' and first he went to the politicians,,1)
(Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by,1)
(on his behalf; and if their relatives are corrupted, at least they,1)
(myself with the concerns of others, but do not venture to come forward,1)
(earliest years had heard that he was a corrupter of youth, and had seen,1)
(self-accusation. The parallelisms which occur in the so-called Apology,1)
(effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread,1)
(wrong myself. I will not say of myself that I deserve any evil, or,1)
(part, O men of Athens? Clearly that which is my due. And what is my due?,1)
(Anaxagoras, who had disappointed him in his hopes of learning about mind,1)
(contrary to analogy is this! How inconceivable too, that he should make,1)
(Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the,1)
(trouble; wherefore the oracle gave no sign. For which reason, also, I am,1)
(I feared imprisonment and death. This happened in the days of the,1)
(and Symposium of Xenophon, who belongs to an entirely different class of,1)
(kind of wisdom, I reply, wisdom such as may perhaps be attained by man,,1)
(there were a law at Athens, as there is in other cities, that a capital,1)
(1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be,1)
(a method of trying the question. I reflected that if I could only find,1)
(has this wisdom, and teaches at such a moderate charge. Had I the same,,1)
(allowed to pay them. There is at this time a Parian philosopher residing,1)
(     http://www.gutenberg.org,1)
(He cannot.,1)
(copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative,1)
(who has affirmed that he is a downright atheist. To this Socrates fairly,1)
(Which is better, to live among bad citizens, or among good ones? Answer,,1)
(not to make a present of justice, but to give judgment; and he has sworn,1)
(generals who had not taken up the bodies of the slain after the battle,1)
(and courage, and any other virtue, demean themselves in this way, how,1)
(passages in their own writings, and asked what was the meaning of,1)
(this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with,1)
(friend of mine, and also a friend of yours, for he shared in the recent,1)
(Posting Date: November 3, 2008 [EBook #1656],1)
(friend of Socrates, that he had no wish to live; and that the divine,1)
(a mina. Let that be the penalty, or, if his friends wish, thirty minae;,1)
(the penalty; for which sum they will be ample security to you.,1)
(On the whole we arrive at the conclusion that the Apology is true to the,1)
(any thought of death and danger? For wherever a man's place is, whether,1)
(of the same deme with myself, and there is Critobulus his son, whom I,1)
(they could be immortal if you only allowed them to live; and I think,1)
(again you shall die;--if this was the condition on which you let me go,,1)
(any one who understands human and political virtue? You must have,1)
(his life, and in the height of his triumph, when he is weakest, and yet,1)
(throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at,1)
(doing? All these rumours and this talk about you would never have arisen,1)
(understand the meaning of them. The poets appeared to me to be much in,1)
(life; he who will fight for the right, if he would live even for a brief,1)
(degree he would have conciliated the favour of the dicasts;' and who,1)
(     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method,1)
(life which is likely to bring you to an untimely end? To him I may,1)
(($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt,1)
(that if he avenged his companion Patroclus, and slew Hector, he would,1)
(that he has ever learned or heard anything from me in private which all,1)
(to be disabling others, but to be improving yourselves. This is the,1)
(But if any one likes to come and hear me while I am pursuing my mission,,1)
(labours, as I may call them, which I endured only to find at last the,1)
(     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he,1)
(sign refused to allow him to prepare a defence, and also that Socrates,1)
(electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to,1)
(although I am not wise, when they want to reproach you. If you had,1)
(poem of Solon, the virtues of Charmides, they may have been due only to,1)
(refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity,1)
(virtue and wisdom before he looks to his private interests, and look to,1)
(you, for not caring about that for which they ought to care, and,1)
(he will still persevere and reprove them. This is his way of corrupting,1)
(The second accusation he meets by interrogating Meletus, who is present,1)
(intentional; and if unintentional, he ought to have been instructed by,1)
(as he has troubled them, if they appear to prefer riches to virtue, or,1)
(they are:--that whereas I know but little of the world below, I do not,1)
(     of receipt of the work.,1)
(Xenophon.,1)
(Now if you suppose that there is no consciousness, but a sleep like,1)
(virtue; such conduct, I say, would be unlike human nature. If I had,1)
(and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.,1)
(redistribution.,1)
(my mission is this:--if I had been like other men, I should not have,1)
(will tell you the entire truth. Men of Athens, this reputation of mine,1)
(While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we,1)
(doctrine which corrupts the youth, I am a mischievous person. But if,1)
(have such another), or, as he may be ludicrously described, he is the,1)
(say and do anything. The difficulty, my friends, is not to avoid death,,1)
(determined by you as is best for you and me.,1)
(be always trying to get up an interruption. Did ever any man believe,1)
(if you let me go now, and are not convinced by Anytus, who said that,1)
(fairly answer: There you are mistaken: a man who is good for anything,1)
(what you value far more--actions. Let me relate to you a passage of my,1)
(in the horse or chariot race, whether the chariots were drawn by two,1)
(spectacle, together with a host of relations and friends; whereas I,,1)
(not an evil. For either death is a long sleep, the best of sleeps, or,1)
(worst evil. But the oracle made no sign of opposition, either when I was,1)
(But there is another part of the indictment which says that he teaches,1)
(wanted to escape the accuser, and not to give an account of your lives.,1)
(Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification,1)
(me would have been far larger; but now, had thirty votes gone over to,1)
(Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project,1)
(out either in this or in any future enquiry.,1)
(that such are a dishonour to the state, and that any stranger coming in,1)
(Sophists, Callias, the son of Hipponicus, and knowing that he had sons,,1)
(1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,,1)
(posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied,1)
(1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate,1)
(atheist cannot believe in the sons of gods or in divine things. The,1)
(I say what is true, although a thing of which it is hard for me to,1)
(will confirm the truth of what I am saying.,1)
(man, facing death--if now, when, as I conceive and imagine, God orders,1)
(court of law, I am quite a stranger to the language of the place; and,1)
(least have the Olympic victor's reward of maintenance in the Prytaneum.,1)
(not a man give, O judges, to be able to examine the leader of the great,1)
(necessity of virtue and improvement; and if they refuse to listen to him,1)
(rate, I believe in spiritual agencies,--so you say and swear in the,1)
(What, do you mean to say, Meletus, that they are able to instruct and,1)
(such an expression, I cared not a straw for death, and that my great and,1)
(never interrupted him in the course of his defence; the reason of which,,1)
(bitter enmities had arisen; the professors of knowledge had revenged,1)
(1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm,1)
(question: How about horses? Does one man do them harm and all the world,1)
(divine agencies, and not in spirits or demigods?,1)
(would be a reward suitable to a poor man who is your benefactor, and,1)
(men not to receive the gods whom the city receives, and has other new,1)
(by force of persuasion and entreaty I could overpower your oaths, then,1)
(master was greater than the disciple. But in any case, some of the words,1)
(has his reward; and the good should be of a kind suitable to him. What,1)
(cease from the practice and teaching of philosophy, exhorting any,1)
(themselves may have complied with this practice on similar occasions,,1)
(Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning,1)
(Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you,1)
(and irrational, and is nevertheless accepted by him as the guiding,1)
(Well, then, I must make my defence, and endeavour to clear away in a,1)
(court for denying the existence of the gods, if I disobeyed the oracle,1)
(the state before he looks to the interests of the state; and that this,1)
('Socrates is an evil-doer, and a curious person, who searches into,1)
(received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with,1)
(exile of the people, and returned with you. Well, Chaerephon, as you,1)
(electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set,1)
(nothing is opposed to their readiness to teach all things; his talking,1)
(poetry than they did themselves. Then I knew that not by wisdom do poets,1)
(would have appeared to him both uncertain and unimportant in comparison,1)
(The answer begins by clearing up a confusion. In the representations,1)
(and then to the poets, and then to the craftsmen, but always with the,1)
(together, and in which there may be a hope of seeing the heroes of,1)
(who would rebuke and exhort the Athenian people in harsher and more,1)
(agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few,1)
(Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm,1)
(affidavit; and yet if I believe in divine beings, how can I help,1)
(spirit of mere wantonness and youthful bravado. Has he not compounded a,1)
(of Anytus and Lycon, any one may see that he would not have had a fifth,1)
(that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do,1)
(WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.,1)
(This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,,1)
(providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to,1)
(1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the,1)
(votes are so nearly equal; for I had thought that the majority against,1)
(inconsiderate with you, and you will be more offended at them. If you,1)
(by which I corrupt the youth, as you say.,1)
(will refer you to a witness who is worthy of credit; that witness shall,1)
(them and asking them questions! In another world they do not put a man,1)
(Then I went to another who had still higher pretensions to wisdom, and,1)
(I must try to make a defence:--Let their affidavit be read: it contains,1)
(freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest,1)
(name of Athens: he feels too, that the judge has sworn not to give away,1)
(Plato was to be one of his sureties for the payment of the fine which he,1)
(examine and cross-examine him, and if I think that he has no virtue in,1)
(Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm,1)
(and heard me. So I left him, saying to myself, as I went away: Well,,1)
(http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg,1)
(receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a,1)
(of the sufferer is carried still further in the Gorgias, in which the,1)
(any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from,1)
(this; and he makes no attempt to veil his ignorance in mythology and,1)
(Tell the judges, then, who is their improver; for you must know, as you,1)
(his life as a sort of missionary in detecting the pretended wisdom of,1)
(     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.,1)
(way:--I came across a man who has spent a world of money on the,1)
(perhaps be expected to sleep in the ear of the multitude, is lurking,1)
(works.,1)
(must have actually occurred. It is significant that Plato is said to,1)
(prophetic power. And I prophesy to you who are my murderers, that,1)
(PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE,1)
(of Socrates, he is only using my name by way of illustration, as if,1)
(character of Socrates, but we cannot show that any single sentence in it,1)
(aut dominus videretur esse judicum', Cic. de Orat.); and the loose and,1)
(1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern,1)
(counter-proposition shall he make? He, the benefactor of the Athenian,1)
(It has been remarked that the prophecy of a new generation of teachers,1)
(I would have you know, that if you kill such an one as I am, you will,1)
(to suffer any harm. Had I money I might have estimated the offence at,1)
(and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4,1)
(circumstances. We observe that the enmity of Aristophanes to Socrates,1)
(their way into the drama, and may be learned at the theatre. Socrates,1)
(have lost my life, had not the power of the Thirty shortly afterwards,1)
(shall have a wonderful interest in there meeting and conversing with,1)
(ask you, O my friends, to punish them; and I would have you trouble,1)
(lofty character and policy of the great Pericles, and which at the same,1)
(Nothing evil can happen to the good man either in life or death, and his,1)
(nothing else to be said of them.,1)
(with you or any other multitude, honestly striving against the many,1)
(to suffer the penalty of villainy and wrong; and I must abide by my,1)
(improve youth?,1)
(http://gutenberg.org/license).,1)
(are the sons of gods? You might as well affirm the existence of mules,,1)
(1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a,1)
(literal truth; much is said which was not said, and is only Plato's view,1)
(the citizens without fee or reward--this was his mission. Whether his,1)
(Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:,1)
(been absent at the last scene in the Phaedo. Is it fanciful to suppose,1)
(say to me, Socrates, this time we will not mind Anytus, and you shall,1)
(or, when he argues that he never could have corrupted the men with whom,1)
(Did ever man, Meletus, believe in the existence of human things, and not,1)
(For if I tell you that to do as you say would be a disobedience to the,1)
(       Also known as "The Death of Socrates",1)
(incurred a fine of a thousand drachmae.,1)
(them is one of real friendliness, but also of concealed irony. Towards,1)
(collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an,1)
(The Project Gutenberg EBook of Apology, by Plato,1)
(But this is what I call the facetious riddle invented by you: the,1)
(put him to death in order to escape the necessity of giving an account,1)
(And now, O men who have condemned me, I would fain prophesy to you;,1)
(undertakes to show that Meletus (rather unjustifiably) has been,1)
(the father of Epigenes; and there are the brothers of several who have,1)
(evil their families have suffered at my hands. Now is their time. Many,1)
(a degree as not to know that these doctrines are found in the books of,1)
(a slip or error in any matter; and now as you see there has come upon me,1)
(the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any,1)
(1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:,1)
(permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,,1)
(copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to,1)
(who is suddenly awakened from sleep), and you think that you might,1)
(you refuse to answer for yourself. There is no man who ever did. But now,1)
(dithyrambic, and all sorts. And there, I said to myself, you will be,1)
(form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm,1)
(reproduction of the words of Socrates, partly because Plato would not,1)
(the accusers whom I dread; for their hearers are apt to fancy that such,1)
(        http://www.gutenberg.org/1/6/5/1656/,1)
(tone and character with the description of Xenophon, who says in the,1)
(acquittal, instead of informing and convincing him. For his duty is,,1)
(Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,,1)
(believing in spirits or demigods;--must I not? To be sure I must; and,1)
(shameful is their conduct! I have seen men of reputation, when they have,1)
(have a family, yes, and sons, O Athenians, three in number, one almost a,1)
(Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to,1)
(money-changers.' The allusion in the Crito may, perhaps, be adduced as a,1)
(horses or by many. For I am in want, and he has enough; and he only,1)
(Nobody will believe you, Meletus, and I am pretty sure that you do not,1)
(not to good.,1)
(the most foolish; and that others less esteemed were really wiser and,1)
(electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers,1)
(gods, and then again that I do believe in gods; that is, if I believe in,1)
(status with the IRS.,1)
(them. But that is not so--far otherwise. For I do believe that there,1)
(the brother of Theodotus (now Theodotus himself is dead, and therefore,1)
(dead abide, what good, O my friends and judges, can be greater than,1)
(Then I went to one man after another, being not unconscious of the,1)
(hands.,1)
(when he was so eager to slay Hector, his goddess mother said to him,,1)
(for which they will be excellent securities.,1)
(used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who,1)
(three accusers, Meletus and Anytus and Lycon, have set upon me; Meletus,,1)
(many times.,1)
(virtue, and of those other things about which you hear me examining,1)
(Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg,1)
(the worse appear the better cause. The disseminators of this tale are,1)
(maintain, are unworthy of me. I thought at the time that I ought not to,1)
(absurd.',1)
(did come, because they found an amusement in hearing the pretenders to,1)
(concludes this part of his defence, is more satisfactory.,1)
(Socrates, there are no means of determining. It certainly agrees in,1)
(Produced by Sue Asscher,2)
(Besides, he is not so overwise as to imagine that he knows whether death,1)
(real wisdom, being a pretence of knowing the unknown; and no one knows,1)
(practically, but may be true in some ideal or transcendental sense. The,1)
(by appealing to his practice of religion. Probably he neither wholly,1)
(he believes in the sons of gods, is he serious or jesting? It may be,1)
(therefore I would have you regard me as if I were really a stranger,,1)
(last words appear to have been the actual indictment (compare Xen.,1)
(receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy,1)
(in them, which takes them out of the category of sophistry. (Compare,1)
(WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO,1)
(you not to interrupt--he asked the oracle to tell him whether anyone was,1)
(condemned me.,1)
(am called wise, for my hearers always imagine that I myself possess,1)
(Some one will say: And are you not ashamed, Socrates, of a course of,1)
(the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy,1)
(spare his life; neither will he present a spectacle of weeping children,,1)
(be let off, but upon one condition, that you are not to enquire and,1)
(no cognizance of unintentional offences: you ought to have taken me,1)
(     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you,1)
(lofty and commanding. Anytus proposes death as the penalty: and what,1)
(your equipment.,1)
(of flesh and blood, and not 'of wood or stone,' as Homer says; and I,1)
(during all these years, and have been doing yours, coming to you,1)
(accusations of both might be summed up in a formula. The first say,,1)
(to think themselves something when they are nothing.,1)
(Republic. The Crito may also be regarded as a sort of appendage to the,1)
(also see. Then again there is Lysanias of Sphettus, who is the father of,1)
(Trojan war in another world. On the other hand, his hope of immortality,1)
(Foundation,1)
(the corrupter and all the rest of the world the improvers of the youth;,1)
(flowing from the natural elevation of his position?,1)
(other days and nights of his life, and then were to tell us how many,1)
(engaged in friendly intercourse. Nor is there any trace in the Dialogues,1)
(electronic works,1)
(will not easily find another like me, and therefore I would advise you,1)
